Before we analyze Tesla and see
what we can learn from Tesla,
I want you to keep in mind that the
Tesla Group is not really just
an electric car manufacturer.
Tesla is a company that revolves
around renewable energy,
makes electric cars, makes
solar panels and makes batteries
and there are certain synergies
between all the lines that is
the founder and CEO of
Tesla, who is a leader, a visionary,
and that what he wants is not
to manufacture electric cars,
what he wants is to change
the world, what he wants is
to gradually abandon the
use of fossil energy, what
he wants is to slow
global warming,
etc.
And so that you get an idea of how
Elon Musk is, how he is dreamer,
well, because he is the founder
of SpaceX, which is a company
that makes rockets and has the
idea of sending humans to Mars
and at some point creating a colony
there, etc.
We'll start talking about Tesla
in the electric car industry.
The first thing I want you to take
into account is that unlike other
companies we analyze, of which we
say they are changing the
world, Facebook for example, we
can think of Airbnb, Airbnb revolutionizes
a global sector, but with a
very different business model,
because it is a marketplace, or Uber
with respect to taxis for example,
but in the case of Tesla is not so,
we must take into account that
Tesla what it does is to enter into
competition in a very mature
market, with huge barriers
of entry, with very large players,
such as the large automobile
groups, but with a more similar
business model, with certain
innovations but in the end competes
frontally.
The first doubt that generates us
is Tesla, it is a well-known brand,
it is a brand with
a very good positioning, it is a
brand with very good prospects, but
today what dimension has Tesla?
Within the car market, what
is its size?
We can analyze this from different
perspectives.
If we analyze it from the
perspective of the number of
cars sold, income, number of
employees or market share,
then Tesla is very small.
I will share this table with
you, here we have related different
variables, we have the first of
the columns, what we have done is
to order the big ones according
to their stock market capitalization,
the value of the company, as
we see Tesla is the fourth,
Tesla is one of the big ones.
However, this seems to be a bit
inconsistent with the current
results of Tesla's business, because
if we look at the market share
that Tesla has, for example, because
it is infinitely lower than its direct
competitors, even look at
Tesla has a market share of 0.
37% and BMW, Ford or General
Motors because around 10 each, or
in sold cars, is that Tesla sold
76.000 cars in 2016, it is very
little compared to the millions
that sell their competitors, however
as we have seen it is
a very valued company, the
fourth largest in the world
and here comes out a very
curious ratio that is because
the car sold in 2016 Tesla is
worth 800,000 dollars, look at
and General Motors is worth
5,000 dollars, why is it so?,
because this is a question that
we have answered, why the
investors confided in Tesla?,
Why Tesla has that value?
Well, we will analyze
it from the perspective
of growth, we talk about
a mature market with
annual growths that in
the coming years we will
put that it is of 5% or something
like that worldwide,
to say something, and
all players within this
mature market, those we
have seen as Toyota or
Volkswagen etc., because
they will grow more or less
at that rate, but it is
that the reality is that
Tesla grows a lot more
than the others, despite
that part of a very low
market share, but it
grows a lot more and we
see it for example in
this graph, in units sold
during 2016 Tesla grew
a 50% and is projecting
growth rhythms so, if
you grow much more than
the others you will
put fast that car,
and I think that another
analysis we have
to keep in mind that
reinforces the
fact that Tesla is
valued as is valued
with those huge expectations,
because they
are expectations,
Well, and what will happen
in the coming years?
In the medium term, what
will be the market share
of electric cars in
10 years or 15 years?
Well, because I think almost everyone
would venture to say it will grow
by 1.7%, because I don't know, it
will grow to be a majority.
We would all agree
on this.
Well, Tesla within the electric
car is the one that is best positioned,
the one that has the best technology,
is generating real economies
of scale and competitive
advantages by selling,
who is going to surfe
that wave?
Who is going to grow the most
within that bestial growth that
will have the electric car in
the coming years?
Probably Tesla.